# Codrin Bﾄネan#Pollux --- 2326

Interview with Dear, Also, The Tree That Was Felled#Pollux  
On the reasons for vesting entirely in the Launch  
Codrin Bﾄネan#Pollux  
Systime: 202+22 1208

> Codrin Bﾄネan#Pollux
> :   Thanks for agreeing to this, Dear. I think we're both in a better spot for it now.
> 
> Dear, Also, The Tree That Was Felled
> :   Of course, my dear. I would still like to discuss some of the same topics, but I will try to be more sensitive about them.
> 
> Codrin
> :   We'll make it work. I'll start where I did last time, then. How are you feeling?
> 
> Dear
> :   I am feeling relieved, I suppose. I am feeling relieved and tired.
> 
> Codrin
> :   How so?
> 
> Dear
> :   To say that a lot has happened in the last twelve months is not quite true. Very little that counts as dramatic or anything has happened. There were interviews by the Bﾄネan clade and that is about it. The most dramatic of those took place on the other LV however many billions of miles away, and that was simply one of you getting bounced from a sim, yes? No assassinations. Nothing has happened that feels like it should lead to exhaustion, and yet I am quite worn out by the sheer amount of information uncovered.
> 
> Codrin
> :   Emotionally exhausted, perhaps? Like you had to relive two hundred years in the space of one?
> 
> Dear
> :   That is a large part of it, yes. Emotionally exhausted, worn out by the shift of understanding between our two clades. 
> 
> Codrin
> :   I suppose we're pretty thoroughly intertwined now, aren't we?
> 
> Dear
> :   [laughter] Yes, now that Ioan has picked up on May Then My Name's rather blunt hints.
> 
> Codrin
> :   Hey, it takes time.
> 
> Dear
> :   And I have been training you for two decades, so there is also that.
> 
> Codrin
> :   Yes. Well, can you expand on how you feel relieved?
> 
> Dear
> :   I will try. There is a lot that the Ode clade has done that has come to light in the last year, and while I cannot say that I was personally a part of much of that, I have also borne that knowledge. I also knew some of those secrets. Not having to hold them constantly at bay from even those that I am closest to has let off that pressure.
> 
> Codrin
> :   Thank you for telling us, too. I know that True Name said we won't see a huge reaction from this given her past work, but it's still a relief to hear for me, as well. Now, do you have any additional thoughts on why you decided to join the Launch? I'm particularly interested on your thoughts on investing entirely in it, but I suspect those will come up in separate questions.
> 
> Dear
> :   They almost certainly will, yes. Well. [pauses] Yes. I believe I said before that a large part of it is due to me being a hopeless romantic. A large part of that still stands. I am excited to see the galaxy, as it were, and it still tickles me to know that I am speeding away from Earth at some ludicrous speed and that there is absolutely no way back.
> 
> Codrin
> :   Does that play into your thoughts on irreversibility?
> 
> Dear
> :   [laughter] Of course, my dear. There is no way back. The Ansible on the launch is no longer connected with the one on Earth, by agreement with the launch commission that this be a one-and-done project, at least for now. If they create additional LVs down the line, then perhaps they will have separate conversations. There is no going and there is no back, yes? We are here, and we will never see Earth, the station, or the System again. That is very appealing to the romantic in me.
> 
> Codrin
> :   I think you also said you were getting bored, too.
> 
> Dear
> :   Yes. Life is a chronic condition, boredom is terminal.
> 
> Codrin
> :   You're a fox of many quips.
> 
> Dear
> :   Yes, I am. Sue me.
> 
> Codrin
> :   [laughter] Well, do you have other reasons?
> 
> Dear
> :   I do. I also mentioned that boredom was close to stasis, and I loathe that feeling even more.
> 
> Codrin
> :   And that has played a role specifically because of the part the conservative elements of your clade have played in ensuring stasis.
> 
> Dear
> :   Yes. They prefer stasis on a grand scale, and perhaps they are correct to do so, but I worry that this mindset too often bleeds into the small scale as well. Stasis can be torture. They know that, too. They mention that ceaseless bliss is a real problem, and so they must inject a desire for something better every now and then, but that knowledge still works against their instincts. 
> 
> Codrin
> :   You want an exciting adventure, they wanted only enough adventure to keep everyone from going crazy.
> 
> Dear
> :   Yes. They have their reasons. They may be good reasons, even. They are not my reasons, however.
> 
> Codrin
> :   You also mentioned that one of your reasons for leaving was that you wanted to be relegated to memory.
> 
> Dear
> :   [grinning] Very much so.
> 
> Codrin
> :   You said, "If we are doomed to forever remember everything, then the closest we can get to being forgotten is to turn memory into longing." You also said that you wanted to be missed. How do you feel about that sentiment now? Is it happening? Is it progressing at the pace you'd like it to? Are you happy about it?
> 
> Dear
> :   It is an interesting question, because I cannot know, can I? I cannot know if anyone misses me or is longing for me back on the L<sub>5</sub> station, can I? They can write me, perhaps, let me know that they are thinking of me, but words on paper only convey so much meaning. It makes me wish that someone had found a way to share thoughts, or even just facial expressions, between the LVs and the System, but no, we are stuck with text, and therein lies the beauty.
> 
> Codrin
> :   Can you expand on what 'longing' and 'being missed' mean to you in this sense?
> 
> Dear
> :   I can try. [pause] I think that they involve a combination of the feelings of grief, loss, and love. Let us use Ioan as an example, though I do not know if ey misses me--
> 
> Codrin
> :   I think ey does. But sorry, continue.
> 
> Dear
> :   Yes. Well. Let us use Ioan as an example. If ey were to only feel grief at my absence, ey would be limited to a solely negative emotion. Grief on its own is crushing. It is not wishing that one had more time with the object of one's grief; that is longing. Grief plus love is longing, yes? Grief borne of love, no matter the shape or kind or color of that love. Then you dig into your memories, running them backwards and forwards in your mind, hunting for just a little bit more time with the one you are grieving. You wish only to feel that love again, and, to tie it all together, you cannot, because you have lost the one whom you love. Loss leads to grief, grief makes you remember love, love makes you realize your loss.
> 
> Codrin
> :   Do you think being missed and longing are the same thing? Just to confirm, I mean.
> 
> Dear
> :   Perhaps, or at least very closely related. What I described just now fits both emotions. Being missed perhaps implies more acceptance of that loss than longing does, while longing has connotations of sadness that there can never be more of that direct connection.
> 
> Codrin
> :   Thank you. I'd like to ask you a question now, but last time I asked it, I made you cry. May I ask it again, or would you prefer to steer clear of it?
> 
> Dear
> :   If it is the question I am thinking of, I have nearly a year to think about it, and am much more comfortable with it now. Ask away.
> 
> Codrin
> :   Alright, just let me know if you want to stop. Do you worry that you won't be missed?
> 
> Dear
> :   I do, yes. I know that it is impossible to be so great on a System with tens of billions of individuals on it to be known by them all, as much as an artist may dream, but even among the small circles in which I was known, I worry that I will be forgotten. I worry that I won't be missed, or that I will be forgotten.
> 
> Codrin
> :   You said, specifically, that--
> 
> Dear
> :   Wait, Codrin, let me say it. I do not want to hear it from you.
> 
> Codrin
> :   Okay.
> 
> Dear
> :   Okay. I said that some aspects of myself may render me "the kind of fellow who is beloved by all yet loved by none". Before you ask whether I still feel that way, the answer is that I do. I do still worry that I might be beloved by all yet loved by none. My understanding of the phrase, however, has changed, and that change has softened the sentiment.
> 
> Dear
> :   To be beloved is, I think, to experience a type of parasocial relationship. If I am beloved by someone, they love the idea of me that they hold in their head. To be famous is to be beloved. To have someone come to your gallery exhibitions or your talks or your parties simply to say that they were near you, even if only to themselves, then that is to be beloved. This turns the phrase into a concern that I might find myself in more parasocial relationships than social relationships.
> 
> Dear
> :   It is a hard fear to shake, but once I put it in those terms, I was able to step past that emotional reasoning. I do not think that I am loved by none. Both of my partners love me. May Then My Name and Ioan love me. Serene loves me. My friends love me. That does not stop the fear of being beloved by all yet loved by none from rearing its ugly head, but I am more easily able to acknowledge it and let it pass, now.
> 
> Codrin
> :   Thank you. That helps put it into context for me, too. When you started talking about that last time, that's when I started struggling with the interview.
> 
> Dear
> :   Why? I mean, I know that this is your interview, but for my sake, I would like to know why.
> 
> Codrin
> :   [pause] I think because something about the way you said it made me worry that you thought that I didn't love you, or maybe that you didn't love me, or--
> 
> Dear
> :   [angrily] Codrin.
> 
> Codrin
> :   I'm sorry, Dear. I wanted to be up front about it.
> 
> Dear
> :   [long pause, calmer] I understand. I... [pause] Perhaps you feel some of the same worry that you might be loved by none. Perhaps it is a universal emotion.
> 
> Codrin
> :   I think so, yeah. Having it said out loud kicked my anxiety up a notch, so I started to worry, "Wait, *am* I loved by none? Does Dear love me? Do both of my partners love me?" I know it's not true, but that's why I reacted in the way that I did.
> 
> Dear
> :   [smiling] Yes. I apologize for yelling.
> 
> Codrin
> :   It's okay, Dear. Now, I want to hear your thoughts on death.
> 
> Dear
> :   [taken aback] You do?
> 
> Codrin
> :   Of course. I suspect they're interesting.
> 
> Dear
> :   Okay, but--
> 
> Codrin
> :   And if you say "I want to die", I'll pull your tail and call you names.
> 
> Dear
> :   [laughter] Yes, yes, fine. My thoughts, okay. [pause] Okay. To be more calm about it, I want to experience death. I do not want to just quit, because that is suicide in this sense, and my wish to experience death is not bound up in that particular set of emotions. I would prefer not to be assassinated or anything so grand. It is an acceptable end, I suppose, because it would mean that I will have lived a life worth being assassinated for, and from what I have seen --- what I saw with Qoheleth --- it looks like a process. Yes! Yes, that is it. Thank you for asking this, my dear. It gave me the chance to find the words.
> 
> Dear
> :   I do not want to experience ceasing existing. That is just cessation, and I do not care whether or not there is anything beyond that cessation. That is for the prophets and poets to worry about. What I want to experience is the process of death. Assassination would be acceptable, even if it is not preferable, because I would get to experience that process. Better, however, is the fact that these LVs are doomed from the start. Eventually, they will fail. The generator on board is guaranteed for some thousands of years or whatever, but it will fail eventually. Or the System will crash into a comet, or some ice ball out in the Oort cloud --- I read about that, you know? It is all incredibly boring --- or it will wind up flying too close to a star and burn up. That, I think, is the end that I am most excited for. We are [shaking head] all of those on the LVs are encased in Castor and Pollux, yes? How fitting, then, that we might die like Icarus! I imagine that we will not necessarily feel too much within our little System, but there may be some discontinuity, or perhaps corruption. How exciting would that be?
> 
> Codrin
> :   [laughter] I'm not sure I share your excitement, there.
> 
> Dear
> :   Lame. [laughter] But either way, I find it fascinating. Will we feel pain? Who knows! It is a new thing, and I am looking forward to experiencing something new.
> 
> Codrin
> :   That, at least, I can understand. I'd just prefer it if it didn't involve dying horribly as the LV fails around us.
> 
> Dear
> :   [waving paw] Irrelevant. Boring. Do not care.
> 
> Codrin
> :   You're a brat, you know that?
> 
> Dear
> :   I do. Ioan, my dear, please leave this in. I need written testimony that Codrin thinks that I am a brat. Ow! [laughter] And that ey kicked me in the shin.
> 
> Codrin
> :   No more than you deserved.
> 
> Dear
> :   Well, I can accept that. Do you have any more questions?
> 
> Codrin
> :   Two, yes. How do you feel about the knowledge of the Ode clade's influence in the System?
> 
> Dear
> :   Do you mean separate from the relief?
> 
> Codrin
> :   Yes. You mentioned the relief in the context of no longer holding that secret. I'm curious how you feel about the reality of it.
> 
> Dear
> :   [long pause] I feel shame, I suppose. I wish that they had not done that. It goes beyond guilt for the actions, because I did not perform them. It makes me feel ashamed that I am a member of the clade. I do not wish them harm, of course, nor do I feel that they necessarily were acting in bad faith. I feel that they were doing what they felt was best. Perhaps they were acting out of fear, one that I share, left over from the horrors we experienced prior to uploading. Fears of death, of discontinuity. It was just the means to those positive ends that are distasteful and make me ashamed. I also feel fear at what will come of this history and mythology. I know that True Name and Jonas said that they have prepared both sys- and phys-side for their reception, but, well, if there is any reason for me to be assassinated, it is that. As a public figure and an Odist, I am a visible representative of the clade, and should someone take umbrage with that, they have the motive right there.
> 
> Codrin
> :   Do you feel any pride about the ends, even if the means were unsavory?
> 
> Dear
> :   If I do, it pales in comparison. We have gotten here, and there is no changing that. We cannot be anywhere but here. That I am relatively happy here is inconsequential.
> 
> Codrin
> :   Alright, thank you. Last question: what's next for you?
> 
> Dear
> :   For me? Short term, I plan on eating a good dinner, drinking a lot of wine, and making fun of you until you get mad and pull my tail. Mid term, I plan on working on another exhibition. Perhaps it will even surround death, though likely the topic will be more general, such as my beloved irreversibility.
> 
> Codrin
> :   And long term?
> 
> Dear
> :   I do not know.
> 
> Codrin
> :   You don't?
> 
> Dear
> :   I do not. Is that not fantastic? I do not know, and I love that about this particular future. I simply do not know.
